point one is the fact that I love my
daughter and the way in which that
relates to what I do and don't say on
YouTube the way in which that relates to
what I am and am NOT doing here in China
right now I get mostly mean-spirited
questions about this but once in a while
at someone with good intentions who just
does not know how to express themselves
in an inoffensive way learning the
Chinese language for me has always been
very strongly linked to my daughter and
I have talked about that both on my blog
and on YouTube and in podcasts what you
guys may not realize is that my daughter
is growing up with Chinese as her second
language and the primary reason indeed
the only reason why I started learning
Chinese when I was in Taiwan was because
my daughter now my daughter is not
ethnic Lee Chinese however you may have
met I don't know bourgeois white people
who very casually say they're going to
try to teach their kids Chinese growing
up who are not serious about it my
ex-wife and I were very very serious
about it so serious that we moved to
Taiwan and we moved to Taiwan with a
very small baby being carried in her
arms that was a memorable flight we flew
from France to Taiwan we rented a house
in Taiwan and we got set up very
seriously in Taiwan for my daughter to
have an early childhood education with
Chinese as her second language now since
we split up I do not know how serious my
ex-wife has been about that but I assume
she has remained pretty serious about
raising my daughter with Chinese as her
as her second language or possibly as
her third language at this point I don't
know that would be very much in
character max wife and she's never told
me that you changed that plan so i think
that's that's very likely to continue my
ex-wife is not completely fluent in
chinese but chinese was central to her
area of study whereas it has never been
central to my own area of study and it
still isn't but I'm in China right now
learned
so the idea that my being in China is
somehow unrelated to my daughter is
false short-term and long-term it's very
strongly linked to my daughter it is
quite possible that my ex-wife and
daughter would visit me here in kunming
I got one very brief email from ex-wife
saying that you would it's like to
sentence email or something say oh yeah
ok I'm going to come and visit you could
make with with my daughter and then I
never heard anything more about that I
doubt that was a lie I think when she
wrote that email she meant it but I
really don't know if the plans
evaporated or maybe her lawyer told her
not to or I don't know just never heard
anything more about that um and look I
mean a lot of you guys also all of the
opinions about my legal situations are
just surreal on the internet I think all
you people have grown up watching TV and
movies and you think you know a lot more
about how the law works than you do i do
love my daughter i do miss my daughter i
do think about my daughter almost every
day I think if anyone says they think
about their kid every single day they're
lying because some days you are just so
busy that doesn't enter you into your
mind I mean I think if you had a job
like you're a firefighter or something
the days when you're actually in a
burning building those tasty don't think
about your kid but the reality of my
life these last couple of years has been
that I absolutely did have enough free
time and I still do have enough free
time to think a lot about my daughter so
as I'm sitting here you know studying
Chinese writing out pages and pages a
Chinese script yeah I have I have the
time thing my daughter and I do both
while I'm awake and while I'm asleep I
do frequently have dreams about my
daughter I have lucid dreams only as an
adult would be home at the video for me
to talk about dreams in the world that
dreams play in my life recently I was
talking with out with vegan gains of all
people he's much more of a dreamer than
I am as a character I talked about the
role of dreams and hallucinations in my
life because I'm anti-drug I'm against
the use of you know LSD or other
hallucinatory drugs but I do recognize
in both the history of philosophy
history
civilization and in many people's
personalized that both hallucinations
and dreams often play an important role
for me personally it's of
autobiographical significance that on
the day I've recorded the video in which
I break down weeping twice a video that
now has over a hundred thousand views
video which I briefly suggests that you
know I hope this court case with Durham
right i hope this conflict with during
writer his denunciation doesn't impact
my divorce negative and so on I recorded
that immediately after waking up from a
short nap due to jetlag and
what-have-you was sleeping at strange
times at a short nap during which I did
dream about my daughter again and i woke
up straight out of that nap and hit
record to record that that monologue
really with the kind of emotional impact
of seeing my daughter in my dream very
much still fresh in my mind and I mean
you guys don't know me well if nobody
knows me well have to tell but at the
start of that video I'm still a little
bit of sleep when I watch it I can see
that I can see it in my eyes I can see
it in my face that I haven't fully woken
up and then a few minutes into the video
I'm a bit more alert but I do that sort
of thing intentionally that reflects my
background in the theater and what have
you where you know I do not want to
present a cold and rational exterior on
this channel I very intentionally want
to be emotionally porous on camera I
want to not just talk about my feelings
but really show my feelings and in that
case you know I succeeded and really
showing my feelings about my daughter of
course the other thing that made that
recording so ludicrously emotionally
intense I knew I mean I woke up I was in
this kind of very raw state coming
straight out of a dream about my
daughter but you know during that
recording for half a second the
electricity cuts out and you see that in
the video and I freaked out then I
respond to it that was also very real
because emotionally you're pouring your
heart out on camera and if the
electricity cuts out you know I wasn't
sure I could do it again you know it's
like if the ultra ste cuts out and I've
lost this how can I ever record this
again how can it ever be dis real with
this immediate with this emotional
with all that being said I do think it
would be lame if I came here on the
channel every couple of days or every
week or something and talked about how
much I miss my daughter I do it
periodically you know there are updates
about my divorce but I mean the other
side of this is you know guys like vegan
cheetah cheetah periodically has to come
on and talk about his criminal record
talk about you know his talk about his
personal life in a way that
recapitulates things he said on his
channel six months ago because there
were people he has new fans who have
never gone back and watched the videos
from six months ago so no I mean my
daughter is still very much a part of my
life in terms of why I'm doing what I am
doing and why I'm not doing other things
uh legally again both legally and more
really this is what I'm about to say is
more to do with ethics than the law I
would never show up at my ex-wife's
house or apartment uninvited I would
just absolutely never do that under any
circumstances so from my perspective my
ability to see my daughter rests
entirely on my wife's cooperation so
illegally she's still my wife because
the divorce is still not finished you
know I can refer to as my ex-wife
whatever because we've we filed for
divorce but the paperwork and and the
actual trial and so on the court
proceedings are still unfinished what if
you want to say so you know there's this
long drama already discussed on this
channel where I did go to visit my ex
wife and daughters last time I did that
she basically stabbed me in the back and
again for me ethically so like you know
it this is massively simplifying but she
invited me to come see my daughter and
then in what I interpret as an attempt
to blackmail me she she pulled the rug
out from under that up she she in effect
cancelled the author offer once I had
already spent all the money and flown
will commit it to fly over to Germany i
bought the airplane tickets to paid for
the room and everything else so very sad
situation but I would never I would
never show up uninvited to me again even
if there's no legal question involved
I said I would never do um so in order
for her to prevent me from seeing my
daughter all she has to do is not
respond to an email and she done that
many times where you know China vaguely
says okay you can come visit your
daughter and then for whatever reason
the negotiations just go silent not even
negotiations just arrangements like okay
when should i come what have you and
legally she's played various games with
that uh again i don't want to tell the
whole story here but she basically had
me declared m.i.a legally she had me
declared equivalent to dead in france
pretending that she had no contact with
me at a time when the email record alone
shows she was getting email from me and
replying to email from me so she knew I
was alive she knew where I was I have
emails where I described to her at
length where I'm living and you know
details because she was considering
moving over and joining me in victoria
canada so i talked about where the
grocery store is you know human details
with that so any so legally she's now in
a terrible position because in my
opinion she has lied to the court I'm
saying those things for legal reasons my
understanding of the situation is that
she lied to the court and she misled the
court and claimed that I was again
legally dead legally m.i.a that I
disappeared without a trace when we can
prove in court very simply that that's
not true at all and on the contrary
during that period time I was sending
gifts to my daughter and I was trying to
arrange to visit my daughter I was
trying to be an active part of my
daughter's life but her reasons for
preventing me from seeing my daughter as
I say may well have been linked to that
strategy on her part that you wanted to
have me declared missing or dead now the
only update i have on that i got one
very short email that was from my wife's
lawyer sent to my lawyer sent to me so i
do not know if this is based on
something my ex-wife said or if it's
purely the lawyers talking you don't
know there's you know we say in English
broken telephones is an indirect message
but that last message of God can be um
can be summarized in one sentence I got
a message from ex-wife's lawyer saying
how much money do you want now that's
surreal to me in many ways because our
situation our problem couldn't possibly
be resolved by money I mean how how are
you gonna buy me in this situation and
beyond that you know my ex-wife is not a
millionaire you know if my ex-wife were
literate were actually bill gates you
know maybe there'd be some conversation
yet but the nature of this whole
situation I I don't want to bankrupt my
ex-wife I don't want to you know make my
ex-wife and daughter more poor like you
know and what how how can money possibly
solve any of these problems you know
even if it were millions of dollars how
could it but of course in this case you
know so to me that was bizarre and the
only the only spin I can put on that is
that I think that my ex-wife lawyer her
lawyer must just be sitting there with
her you know her head in her hands
saying what am I going to do this is a
disaster you know legally and morally my
ex-wife has put herself in such a bad
position they must be very worried about
what happens when it goes to court so
they're asking if they can buy me but
you know you can't buy me and you know
what what what do I have to sell it's
just surreal what you know after what
you've done to me how can money settle
anything it's just ridiculous and the
other hand if you were just a reasonable
human being and cooperated positively in
terms of co-parenting you know then
there'd be no reason for any legal
dispute whatsoever so anyway such is
life uh but yeah I mean you know again
it's sometimes hate mail sometimes it's
people of good intentions but our idiots
who are asking well like why aren't you
seeing your daughter right now I don't
know what you imagine I mean it's
something you've seen in a movie like
you think I can solve this situation by
showing up uninvited at my ex-wife's
house or apartment to me even if there
was no legal question if there was no
there were no lawyers of all
that would be immoral simply if my ex
wife doesn't want to see me doesn't what
I would never show up and again you know
there are also other halfway measures
like you know my ex-wife could not want
to see me but she can drop off my
daughter you know at a point where I
pick up that you do you can you can
arrange to see very little of each other
and still spend quality time with your
kid but no I mean there's absolutely no
way to force the situation morally or
ethically to me any kind of initiative
of that sort is immoral and on the other
hand you know court cases are slow
that's it I've I have no timeline I have
no estimate from my lawyer about when
that divorce will be resolved and the
contrary the only legal experts who
spoke to me about it but they always
just say oh well they always just say oh
well you should you should just settle
out of court as if nothing's wrong it's
like God years have gone by at this
point there is ZERO possibility of this
being settled without a judge's
intervention it seems to me actually two
separate court dates with two separate
judges will be required so yes I love my
daughter she's a huge part of why I'm
doing everything I'm doing my life right
now why I'm inven rolled in the
university program why I signed up to
join the army a couple months ago why
I'm in China right now learning Chinese
why I ever studied Chinese in the first
place because it is not my personal
interest in any way whatsoever and it's
not even in my professional interest
it's not that has everything to do with
my daughter and my ex-wife and my
daughter's presumed future yeah and my
presumed future is being being a part of
my daughter's life ah and yeah a couple
you people who met me face to face you
know me and you've been complete
about this and I'll never
forget be straight with you yeah I'm not
gonna name who you are but sure you know
um some of you guys could have shown a
little bit of sensitivity a little bit
of human decency you could have
expressed questions as questions instead
of as accusations and you didn't you
made asses out of yourselves
and the relationship between us will
will never be the same